One, two, three, four!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Rev up your engines!
[TIRES SCREECHING]
It's time for scottykilmer.com.
Can we fix it!
Can we?
[ENGINE STARTING]
I found a problem
with cars that make
stooges of even good mechanics,
and here's what it is.
So cars are just like people.
They have to breathe in, so
make sure the filters are clean,
but they also have
to breathe out.
[BLOWS AIR]
Your carb breaths out
through the tailpipe.
If the exhaust system is
clogged up, it won't run right.
And in modern day cars, it's
usually the catalytic converter
that clogs up, so I'm going
to show you how to check 'em.
Since the catalytic converter's
on the bottom of the car,
we're jacking it up so
we can see it better.
Well, here's the
catalytic converter.
[TAPPING]
But it's a sealed unit,
so how do you check it?
Well, I'm going to
drill a hole and measure
the exhaust pressure
with this little gauge,
and it'll tell us
if it's clogged up.
First, you drill a little
1/4 hole in the pipe.
Hey, hey!
Scotty, what are
you doing to my car!
I've got these little metal
plugs to fill the holes up
when I'm done.
Then you stick the
gauge in the hole
to measure the pressure behind
the catalytic converter.
We'll start the engine and
see what the pressure is.
[ENGINE RUNNING]
Well, the pressure behind
it is less than 1 pound.
It's in the green,
so it's fine behind.
Now I'm going to drill a
hole in front of the cat
and measure the pressure there.
Now when I hook the
hose up in front
of the catalytic converter, it
has almost 15 pounds pressure.
That means that the
pressure is building up
in front of the
catalytic converter
because it's clogged up.
It needs a new
catalytic converter.
And here's a couple
mechanic's tips.
If your car has less
than 70,000 miles on it
or is less than seven
years old, there's
a federal warranty covering
the catalytic converters.
You get one for free.
If it's older than that
or you have more mileage,
go to a discount
muffler store, and they
can weld a universal
cat on and save you
a whole bunch of money.
So don't let your mechanic
make a simple job complicated.
Now you know, this looks like
a simple job for simple people.
It only takes a couple minutes
to check a catalytic converter.
And remember, if you have
any car questions, just
visit scottykilmer.com.